Introduce a guide for event streaming over Kafka (#169)
cookpad/global-style-guides: kafka/README.md

# Kafka

## Producers

- <a name="keep-small-messages"></a>

>   Keep messages as small as possible. Expose just enough data so messages make sense to other systems. Use simple RESTish payloads <sup>[link](#keep-small-messages)</sup> <sup>[explanation](https://martinfowler.com/articles/microservices.html#SmartEndpointsAndDumbPipes)</sup>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Keep messages as small as possible. Expose just enough data so messages make sense to other systems. Use simple RESTish payloads. <sup>[link](#keep-small-messages)</sup> <sup>[explanation](https://martinfowler.com/articles/microservices.html#SmartEndpointsAndDumbPipes)</sup>
```

<details>
  <summary><em>Example</em></summary>

>   ```javascript

Author: I didn't found any better format for adding the examples, suggestion are welcome 🙏

>   <summary><em>Example</em></summary>
> ```javascript

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  <summary><em>Example</em></summary>
  
```javascript
```

// Bad
{
  "type": "record",
  "name": "published_recipe",
  "fields": [{
    "name": "published_at",
    "type":  {
      "type": "long",
      "logicalType": "timestamp-micros"
    },
    {
      "name": "first_approved_at",
      "type": ["null", {
         "type": "long",
         "logicalType": "timestamp-micros"
      }],

>       "default": null

Reviewer: Is there any significance to this field for the purpose of illustrating the example?
If not, maybe worth leaving out to hone in on what the guide is saying?

Author: Make sense, I've removed the example. 👍

    }]
}

// Good
{
  "type": "record",
  "name": "published_recipe",
  "fields": [{
    "name": "published_at",
    "type":  {
      "type": "long",
      "logicalType": "timestamp-micros"
    }}]

> }},

Reviewer: (this trailing comma intentional?)

```suggestion
}}
```

```

</details>

- <a name="events-name-past-tense"></a>
  Prefer `{PastTenseVerb}_{Entity}`format for naming the events, event names should be in past tense. <sup>[link](#real-world-events) [explanation](https://youtu.be/JzWJI8kW2kc?t=707)</sup>

<details>

>   <summary><em>Example</em></summary>
> ```javascript

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  <summary><em>Example</em></summary>
  
```javascript
```

// Bad
{
  "type": "record",
  "name": "publishing_recipe"
}

// Good
{
  "type": "record",
  "name": "published_recipe"
}
```

</details>

- <a name="topic-message-key"></a>

>   Prefer `{EntityName}_#{ID}` as format of messages keys. The event ID typically maps to individual entities <sup>[link](#topic-message-key)</sup> <sup>[explanation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/patterns/event-sourcing#issues-and-considerations)</sup>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Prefer `{EntityName}_#{ID}` as the messages key format. The event ID typically maps to individual entities. <sup>[link](#topic-message-key)</sup> <sup>[explanation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/patterns/event-sourcing#issues-and-considerations)</sup>
```

<details>
  <summary><em>Example</em></summary>

>   - recipe_1

Reviewer 2: <summary><em>Example</em></summary>

  - recipe_1

  - tip_42

</details>

- <a name="event-orders-matters"></a>
  For topics where the events order matters, make sure to keep them on the same topic partition by using the same message key or specifying the partition. <sup>[link](#event-orders-matters)</sup> <sup>[explanation](https://www.confluent.io/blog/put-several-event-types-kafka-topic/)</sup>

## Consumers

- <a name="consumer-group-name-format"></a>
  Prefer `#{consumer-app-name}.#{enviroment}.#{consumer-group-name}` format for naming the consumer groups. <sup>[link](#consumer-group-name-format)</sup> <sup>[explanation](https://itlabs.jyotirmegha.in/kiranprabhu/kafka-topic-naming-conventions-best-practices/)</sup>

- <a name="at-least-once-consumers"></a>

>   Make sure consumers are idempotent when using **at-least-once** delivery <sup>[link](#at-least-once-consumers)</sup> <sup>[explanation](https://www.confluent.io/blog/exactly-once-semantics-are-possible-heres-how-apache-kafka-does-it)</sup>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Make sure consumers are idempotent when using **at-least-once** delivery. <sup>[link](#at-least-once-consumers)</sup> <sup>[explanation](https://www.confluent.io/blog/exactly-once-semantics-are-possible-heres-how-apache-kafka-does-it)</sup>
```

- <a name="number-consumers-within-consumer-group"></a>

>   Ensure the number of consumers within a consumer group is less or equal to the number of topic partitions <sup>[link](#number-consumers-within-consumer-group)</sup> <sup>[explanation](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/kafka-the-definitive/9781491936153/ch04.html#T1_overflow_nomessage)</sup>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Ensure the number of consumers within a consumer group is less or equal to the number of topic partitions. <sup>[link](#number-consumers-within-consumer-group)</sup> <sup>[explanation](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/kafka-the-definitive/9781491936153/ch04.html#T1_overflow_nomessage)</sup>
```

## Topics

- <a name="topic-name-format"></a>

>   Prefer `#{producer-name}.#{enviroment}.#{topic-name}.avro` format for naming the topics. <sup>[link](#topic-name-format)</sup> <sup>[explanation](https://itlabs.jyotirmegha.in/kiranprabhu/kafka-topic-naming-conventions-best-practices/)</sup>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Prefer `#{producer-name}.#{enviroment}.#{topic-name}.avro` format for naming topics. <sup>[link](#topic-name-format)</sup> <sup>[explanation](https://itlabs.jyotirmegha.in/kiranprabhu/kafka-topic-naming-conventions-best-practices/)</sup>
```

- <a name="topic-number-of-partitions"></a>

>   Choose the proper number of partitions for a topic using the formula. <sup>[link](#topic-number-of-partitions)</sup> <sup>[explanation](https://www.confluent.io/blog/how-choose-number-topics-partitions-kafka-cluster/)</sup>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Choose the proper number of partitions for a topic using this formula: <sup>[link](#topic-number-of-partitions)</sup> <sup>[explanation](https://www.confluent.io/blog/how-choose-number-topics-partitions-kafka-cluster/)</sup>
```

# Kafka

## Producers

- Keep messages as small as possible using simple RESTish payloads. Borrowed from [Smart endpoints and dumb pipes](https://martinfowler.com/articles/microservices.html#SmartEndpointsAndDumbPipes) pattern and the [Aggregate root pattern](https://martinfowler.com/bliki/DDD_Aggregate.html)

<details>
  <summary><em>Example</em></summary>

> ```javascript

Author: I was trying to follow the pattern that we have in other guides were withing the block we provide good and bad examples using comments, unfortunately, JSON highlight doesn't support any comments, maybe I've been a little bit picky with the highlighting

```json
# bad
{ "key": "value" }
// good
{ "key": "value" }
```

> ```javascript

Reviewer: 👍

// Bad
{
  "type": "record",
  "name": "published_recipe",
  "fields": [{

>     "name": "approved_at",

Reviewer 3: @balvig maybe thats a good example of why it's "bad" 😄

>     "name": "approved_at",

Reviewer 4: When recipes are published, they can be auto-approved, in which case there's no separate `approved_recipe` event... I believe that's why we need the `approved_at` attribute: without it, we wouldn't know whether the recipe is already approved when we consume the `published_recipe` event. 

(We could send two separate events when a recipe is published, but arguably only one thing has happened: the recipe's been published, with an initial state of `approved`... But if we deferred all moderation to a background job, including auto-approval, a separate event could make more sense?)

>     "name": "approved_at",

Reviewer: > @balvig maybe thats a good example of why it's "bad" 😄

@karlentwistle had that thought, but then the "good" example has it too 😅 

@ollieh-m I think I'm more thinking about the example than whatever current status might be 🙇

>     "name": "approved_at",

Reviewer 4: Oh yes, `published_at` would make a lot more sense for the example here 👍

    "type":  {
      "type": "long",
      "logicalType": "timestamp-micros"
    },
    {
      "name": "first_approved_at",
      "type": ["null", {
         "type": "long",
         "logicalType": "timestamp-micros"
      }],
      "default": null
    }]
}

// Good
{
  "type": "record",
  "name": "published_recipe",
  "fields": [{
    "name": "approved_at",
    "type":  {
      "type": "long",
      "logicalType": "timestamp-micros"
    }}]
}},
```

</details>

- Prefer `{SimplePastTenseVerb}_{Entity}`format for naming the events, [event names should be in simple past tense.](https://danielwhittaker.me/2014/10/18/6-code-smells-cqrs-events-avoid/)

<details>
  <summary><em>Example</em></summary>

```javascript
// Bad
{
  "type": "record",
  "name": "voting_contest"
}

// Good
{
  "type": "record",
  "name": "voted_contest"
}
```
</details>

> - Prefer `{EntityName}_#{ID}` format for [domain events](https://martinfowler.com/eaaDev/DomainEvent.html) key providing a unique identifier for stream of events, [The event ID typically maps to individual entities](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/patterns/event-sourcing#issues-and-considerations).

Author: @balvig This format is used for modelling message key our events over Kafka and crucial for [log compaction](https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#compaction)

<details>
  <summary><em>Example</em></summary>

  - recipe_e5cb6e1c65bc
  - tip_d1851256

</details>

- [The orders of these events matters](https://www.confluent.io/blog/put-several-event-types-kafka-topic/) for [Event Sourcing](https://martinfowler.com/eaaDev/EventSourcing.html) pattern, make sure preserve the order of those events by putting them all in the same topic partition by either using the same message key or specifying the partition.

> - The events should be aligned with real-world events, you are dealing with changes that have a native equivalence, by modelling with DDD leads to less fragile design.

Author: > - Align events with real-world events.

I decided to remove this point since I consider is duplicated by the past tense advice

## Consumers

- Build idempotent consumers with **at-least-once** delivery, non-idempotent could be accepted when using **at-most-once** and **exactly-once** delivery semantics.<sup>[ref](https://www.confluent.io/blog/exactly-once-semantics-are-possible-heres-how-apache-kafka-does-it/)</sup>

> - The number of consumers sharing the work of consuming can be at most the number of log partition in that topic, because messages within the same partition are delivered to the same consumer. <sup>[ref](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/designing-data-intensive-applications/9781491903063/)</sup>

Reviewer: This one was a little tricky for me to understand 🙇 
Would it help if we rewrote it in an imperative "do/don't" form?

<details>
  <summary><em>Example</em></summary>

>   <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/505427/92496663-55abf800-f1f0-11ea-8214-e603b8bbb392.png" alt="consumer_example">

Reviewer: We should probably consider committing any images to the repo, if we need them as part of the guides.

Author: @balvig I have removed the image and instead, I've provided the explanation reference directly to this image

</details>

## Topics

- Prefer `#{produce-name}.#{enviroment}.#{topic_name}.avro` format for naming the topics.<sup>[ref](https://itlabs.jyotirmegha.in/kiranprabhu/kafka-topic-naming-conventions-best-practices/)</sup>

> - Choosing the proper number of partitions for a topic requires estimation based on the desired throughput of producers and consumers per partition, a simple formula could be: <sup>[ref](https://www.confluent.io/blog/how-choose-number-topics-partitions-kafka-cluster/)</sup>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Choose the proper number of partitions for a topic using the `TopicPartitions = max(t/p, t/c)` formula
```

Combined with link to further reading, maybe it could allow us to avoid all the extra text below that diverges from the style guide format a bit?

Ideally style guides consist of short, precise bullet points, with any extra reading required linked up elsewhere.

# Kafka

> 

Reviewer 3: It might be useful to briefly introduce what Kafka is here and possibly provide a couple of links for a complete novice to start learning the basics. I know you had a bunch of resources like https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Rzl4O1oaVy8&feature=youtu.be&t=495 and https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=STKCRSUsyP0 they could be useful for other people.

## Producers

- <a name="keep-small-messages"></a>

>   Keep messages as small as possible, exposing just enough that makes sense to the other systems Using simple RESTish payloads <sup>[link](#keep-small-messages)</sup> <sup>[explanation](https://martinfowler.com/articles/microservices.html#SmartEndpointsAndDumbPipes)</sup>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  Keep messages as small as possible. Expose just enough data so messages make sense to other systems. Use simple RESTish payloads <sup>[link](#keep-small-messages)</sup> <sup>[explanation](https://martinfowler.com/articles/microservices.html#SmartEndpointsAndDumbPipes)</sup>
```

<details>
  <summary><em>Example</em></summary>

```javascript
// Bad
{
  "type": "record",
  "name": "published_recipe",
  "fields": [{
    "name": "approved_at",
    "type":  {
      "type": "long",
      "logicalType": "timestamp-micros"
    },
    {
      "name": "first_approved_at",
      "type": ["null", {
         "type": "long",
         "logicalType": "timestamp-micros"
      }],
      "default": null
    }]
}

// Good
{
  "type": "record",
  "name": "published_recipe",
  "fields": [{
    "name": "approved_at",
    "type":  {
      "type": "long",
      "logicalType": "timestamp-micros"
    }}]
}},
```

</details>

- <a name="events-name-past-tense"></a>
  Prefer `{PastTenseVerb}_{Entity}`format for naming the events, [event names should be in past tense.](https://danielwhittaker.me/2014/10/18/6-code-smells-cqrs-events-avoid/) <sup>[link](#events-name-past-tense)</sup> <sup>[explanation](https://danielwhittaker.me/2014/10/18/6-code-smells-cqrs-events-avoid)</sup>

<details>
  <summary><em>Example</em></summary>

```javascript
// Bad
{
  "type": "record",

>   "name": "voting_contest"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  "name": "publishing_recipe"
```

}

// Good
{
  "type": "record",

>   "name": "voted_contest"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  "name": "published_recipe"
```

}
```

</details>

- <a name="topic-message-key"></a>
  Prefer `{EntityName}_#{ID}` as format of messages keys. The event ID typically maps to individual entities <sup>[link](#topic-message-key)</sup> <sup>[explanation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/patterns/event-sourcing#issues-and-considerations)</sup>

<details>
  <summary><em>Example</em></summary>

  - recipe_1

>   - tip_1

Reviewer 3: Just thought it might be useful to have a different ID from 1. Although maybe this is already obvious.

```suggestion
  - tip_153
```

</details>

- <a name="event-orders-matters"></a>
  For topics where the events order matters, make sure to keep them on the same topic partition by using the same message key or specifying the partition. <sup>[link](#event-orders-matters)</sup> <sup>[explanation](https://www.confluent.io/blog/put-several-event-types-kafka-topic/)</sup>

- Align events with real-world events.

## Consumers

- <a name="at-least-once-consumers"></a>

>   Make sure consumers are idempotent when using **at-least-once** delivery <sup>[link](#at-least-once-consumers)</sup> <sup>[explanation](https://www.confluent.io/blog/exactly-once-semantics-are-possible-heres-how-apache-kafka-does-it)</sup>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  Make sure consumers are idempotent, this means that applying an operation once or applying it multiple times has the same effect, when using **at-least-once** delivery <sup>[link](#at-least-once-consumers)</sup> <sup>[explanation](https://www.confluent.io/blog/exactly-once-semantics-are-possible-heres-how-apache-kafka-does-it)</sup>
```

- <a name="number-consumers-within-consumer-group"></a>

>   Make sure number of consumers within a consumer group is less or equal to the number of topic partitions <sup>[link](#number-consumers-within-consumer-group)</sup> <sup>[explanation](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/kafka-the-definitive/9781491936153/ch04.html#T1_overflow_nomessage)</sup>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  Make sure the number of consumers within a consumer group is less or equal to the number of topic partitions <sup>[link](#number-consumers-within-consumer-group)</sup> <sup>[explanation](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/kafka-the-definitive/9781491936153/ch04.html#T1_overflow_nomessage)</sup>
```

# Kafka

## Producers

- <a name="keep-small-messages"></a>

>   Keep messages as small as possible. Expose just enough data so messages make sense to other systems. Use simple RESTish payloads. <sup>[link](#keep-small-messages)</sup> <sup>[explanation](https://martinfowler.com/articles/microservices.html#SmartEndpointsAndDumbPipes)</sup>

Reviewer 5: I think for analytics and machine learning use cases `Keep messages as small as possible.` might not be a good fit. Both of these workloads typically require you to obtain as much data as possible and it's only after your analysis that you'd understand what data was required to reach a given conclusion. What are your thoughts @robertomiranda on analytics applications (initially unknown data requirements) vs known applications (e.g. feeds, understood data requirements)

Reviewer: I think the idea is that while each individual event should hold as little info as possible, consumers should still have access to the complete picture (the definition of which we will probably need to work on as we go) through consuming other events?

Reviewer 6: > Keep messages as small as possible. Expose just enough data so messages make sense to other systems.

@robertomiranda I also had a related, but different thought about this, and how it affects our existing event-driven designs. I've added my comment to https://github.com/cookpad/developer-productivity-squad/issues/195

Author: > I think for analytics and machine learning use cases Keep messages as small as possible. might not be a good fit. Both of these workloads typically require you to obtain as much data as possible and it's only after your analysis that you'd understand what data was required to reach a given conclusion. What are your thoughts @robertomiranda on analytics applications (initially unknown data requirements) vs known applications (e.g. feeds, understood data requirements)

Thank you @ettiee, This one is coming also from the [Interface segregation principle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Interface_segregation_principle) borrowed from the Object-Oriented Design and applied to event-driven architecture, basically, consumers shouldn't be forced to depend on attributes that they don't use, this enforces two things:

- High cohesion - better understandability, robustness
- Low coupling - better maintainability, high resistance to changes

> might not be a good fit. Both of these workloads typically require you to obtain as much data as possible and it's only after your analysis that you'd understand what data was required to reach a given conclusion

I suppose that this part of the experimentation process where consumers could always callback the source origin for information once is defined what's is needed we could always evolve our event schemas and its payloads.

Author: @mattjw I will have a look thanks 🙇

  Prefer `{PastTenseVerb}_{Entity}`format for naming the events, event names should be in past tense. <sup>[link](#real-world-events) [explanation](https://youtu.be/JzWJI8kW2kc?t=707)</sup>

<details>
  <summary><em>Example</em></summary>

```javascript
// Bad
{
  "type": "record",
  "name": "publishing_recipe"
}

// Good
{
  "type": "record",
  "name": "published_recipe"
}
```

</details>

- <a name="topic-message-key"></a>
  Prefer `{EntityName}_#{ID}` as the messages key format. The event ID typically maps to individual entities. <sup>[link](#topic-message-key)</sup> <sup>[explanation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/patterns/event-sourcing#issues-and-considerations)</sup>

<details>
  <summary><em>Example</em></summary>

  - recipe_1
  - tip_42

</details>

- <a name="event-orders-matters"></a>
  For topics where the events order matters, make sure to keep them on the same topic partition by using the same message key or specifying the partition. <sup>[link](#event-orders-matters)</sup> <sup>[explanation](https://www.confluent.io/blog/put-several-event-types-kafka-topic/)</sup>

## Consumers

- <a name="consumer-group-name-format"></a>

>   Prefer `#{consumer-app-name}.#{enviroment}.#{consumer-group-name}` format for naming the consumer groups. <sup>[link](#consumer-group-name-format)</sup> <sup>[explanation](https://itlabs.jyotirmegha.in/kiranprabhu/kafka-topic-naming-conventions-best-practices/)</sup>

Reviewer 5: I wonder if this will be descriptive enough to capture all use-cases for ML and search applications. Both search and MLI teams run applications in an AWS account aliased `cookpad-global-1` on EKS whereas web runs in AWS `cookpad2` on ECS. There will be some overlap in environment names in these two scenarios I think (e.g. there is a `production` environment on ECS in `cookpad2` but there is also a `production` environment in `EKS` in `cookpad-global-1`)

- <a name="at-least-once-consumers"></a>
  Make sure consumers are idempotent when using **at-least-once** delivery. <sup>[link](#at-least-once-consumers)</sup> <sup>[explanation](https://www.confluent.io/blog/exactly-once-semantics-are-possible-heres-how-apache-kafka-does-it)</sup>

- <a name="number-consumers-within-consumer-group"></a>
  Ensure the number of consumers within a consumer group is less or equal to the number of topic partitions. <sup>[link](#number-consumers-within-consumer-group)</sup> <sup>[explanation](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/kafka-the-definitive/9781491936153/ch04.html#T1_overflow_nomessage)</sup>

## Topics

- <a name="topic-name-format"></a>

>   Prefer `#{producer-name}.#{enviroment}.#{topic-name}.avro` format for naming topics. <sup>[link](#topic-name-format)</sup> <sup>[explanation](https://itlabs.jyotirmegha.in/kiranprabhu/kafka-topic-naming-conventions-best-practices/)</sup>

Reviewer 7: @mattjw and I were just discussing this with relation to some topics we may want to create.

In particular r.e. `producer-name` - is this a team/chapter who is the producer/owner, or an application? 

It may be useful to pin down definitions for `producer-name` etc.

Author: @benhowes at the moment is the application name, I will update the document.
